<DOCUMENT>
<TIME>August 17, 1990</TIME>
<TITLE>Our Towns; Of Adult Homes, This One Ranks Among the Worst</TITLE>
<CONTENT>BRENTWOOD, L.I.— The Commission on Quality Care for the Mentally Disabled recently released a list of the state's 14 worst adult homes. Their residents are mainly former mental patients or poor people unable to care for themselves. Inspectors noted that many homes resembled old back wards of state hospitals.

Excerpts from a surprise inspection last fall at one of the 14, the Anna Milissia Adult Home here: ''Seriously substandard... Filthy, an overpowering stench ... Rampant roach problem... Poorly lit... Broken furniture... Many residents appeared poorly dressed and groomed. Two wore pajamas all day... Several clearly needed a bath.... Activities for residents were few.... Occasional VCR movies in the evenings and Bingo.''

Omega Pope, an attendant at a state hospital for 30 years, opened the home in a 1930's-era house in 1970. Twenty people between the ages of 47 and 88 live there, supervised mainly by Mrs. Pope and her daughter, Romaine Powell.

Mrs. Pope says she is proud of her home. ''These people come here to be innovated and live at the highest level they can.'' She says limited government funding - $24 per day per resident - means she shops at thrift stores for residents' clothes. ''People sitting idle? They have the right to sit and do nothing if that's what they want.''

On Tuesday Mrs. Pope agreed to let a reporter visit on Thursday. By coincidence, two commission inspectors arrived at the same time for a surprise follow-up. They were not pleased; they worried that Mrs. Pope had tidied up for the reporter. But they proceeded.

Upstairs, a fire extinguisher was three months overdue for testing. ''You're right,'' said the daughter. How old are these bedspreads, an inspector asked, examining one that was stained and full of holes. ''Less than a year,'' Mrs. Pope said. She sent an aide to change it. The aide put on a second spread, also filthy. ''God,'' said Mrs. Pope, sending for a third. The inspector noted that the room was hot and musty.

Mrs. Pope said, ''One thing we plan is ceiling fans.'' A clock missing knobs said 12:01. It was 10.

Downstairs the inspector noted that a bed hadn't been changed recently. ''I don't know,'' Mrs. Pope said. ''The man's in the hospital with pneumonia.'' At the inspector's request she had the bed changed. The inspector tried to look in a closet. The door fell off.

In the office they saw a June inspection from another agency, the State Department of Social Services, finding ''noncompliance.'' Inspectors asked to use the copy machine. ''It's broken,'' Mrs. Pope said.

A woman who lived there sat staring on the porch during much of the four-hour inspection. There was no light in a downstairs bathroom. ''We tried to replace it yesterday but got the wrong size,'' Mrs. Pope said. 'We're using the hallway light.'' A rug had holes and was held in place by tape. ''We have a new rug on order,'' Mrs. Pope said. ''Any day.'' While inspectors were occupied an aide took away a dirty potty seat stored in a closet. Inspectors found several bad mattresses. ''This does need replacing,'' said Mrs. Pope. She said she had just ordered six new ones. A downstairs bedroom clock said 8:04. It was 10:30. The inspector touched a faucet that twirled 360 degrees. ''The plumber's coming back soon,'' Mrs. Pope said. A bedroom bureau was empty except for cigarette butts. They're not supposed to smoke in here. ''We know that,'' Mrs. Pope and her daughter said in unison. ''We talk to them constantly,'' said Mrs. Pope, sending for an aide to clean the bureau. The inspector tried to see if the room's resident had clothes, but the closet wouldn't open. ''All this humidity,'' said Mrs. Pope. They forced it and found clothes all over the floor. ''He likes them on the floor,'' said Mrs. Pope. The inspector couldn't find toothpaste or brush for the resident. ''I'll ask if he flosses,'' Mrs. Pope said. Towels? ''We have no towels out right now,'' Mrs. Pope said.

An inspector asked a man what he did here. ''I relax mostly.'' The inspector found a pill on the floor. ''Looks like Mellaril,'' an antipsychotic, Mrs. Pope said. Inspectors found that residents were not being given the prescribed dosages. ''I'm having a good talk with the medicine girl tomorrow,'' said the daughter.

Cranberries were sitting out. When the inspector asked how long, an aide threw them away. The inspector had them clean several dirty pots on shelves. Were these all the dry goods? ''We have more on order,'' said Mrs. Pope. ''Probably tonight.'' An inspector asked why there wasn't more meat in the freezer. ''We're defrosting,'' said Mrs. Pope. ''You're defrosting?'' asked the inspector. ''Even though that woman just put in four packs of hot dogs?''</CONTENT></DOCUMENT>
